Text To Audio V0.48 (first release)
Freeware by Steve Shambles.
March 2021
https://stevepython.wordpress.com

Tested on Windows 7 and Linux Mint 19.1.
Internet connection required.

TTA will convert text that you have pasted or typed 
into the TTA editor into an mp3 file using Google translate.

Quick demo:
------------
To see a quick demo, load up TTA, right click your mouse over
the editor and select "Paste demo text", some text will appear
in the editor.

Now click "Convert to audio", using the button below the editor.
Now wait for the speech to play.

All the options via the mouse menu and the buttons are very simple
and straight forward and do not really need explanation, but for
completeness I will give a brief overview.

Drop-down menu:
---------------
Help - This file.

About - version info pop up.

Python source code on GitHub - Takes you to the GitHub web page.

Visit my Blog - Takes you to my Blog page about Python programming
                and my memoirs. 

Contact Me - Takes you to my contact page where you can mail me.

Make a small donation via PayPal - Should you really find TTA useful
and want to make me happy to continue knock out more stuff for free
or update TTA with more features and fixes then a fiver or tenner
would go down a treat, you know it makes sense.

Buttons:
--------
Paste Text - If there is any text on the clipboard it will be
             pasted into the editor.

Clear Text - Will clear the editor of text.

Convert To Audio - If there is some text in the editor it
                   will be converted to speech and saved in an mp3 
				   file on your drive and then automatically played
				   back using your systems default player for mp3s.

View MP3s - Will open TTA's mp3s folder on your drive using your systems
            default file viewer. Here you can replay, copy and delete
			previously made mp3s.
			All files are uniquely named using a timestamp.
	

Right mouse menu:
-----------------
Paste - Same as paste Text button.

Copy All - Will copy all the text in the editor to the clipboard.
           This is in case you want to save a copy of the text
		   that you may have typed in or edited.

Clear Text - Same as clear Text button

Clear clipboard - Just in case you need an empty clipboard.

Paste demo text - Clicking this quickly pastes a few silly jokes into
                  the editor for quick testing purposes, 
				  it is always available, even after the 
				  clipboard has been cleared.

Backgrounds - Just select your preferred background colour, 
              to help keep eye strain low. 
			  My fav is currently yellow at night and blue in day.

Tips:
-----
The status bar at the bottom of the editor will keep you informed
of what is going on.

Google translate will only allow small bits of text
to be processed by each call, TTA will keep calling GT until
all your text has be processed, but this can sometimes cause
a small pause where its not wanted. 
As far as I can tell this is currently unavoidable. 

So break your text up into small paragraphs and short
line lengths where possible.

Currently the voice you get is not changeable.
The voice you get varies from system to system.

If the voice says a word the wrong way then try changing the
spelling to make it say it how you want.

Enjoy.
Steve Shambles
March 2021 (I've just had my first Covid jab!)


Python programmers
--------------------
create your own executable with pyinstaller:

pyinstaller txt2audio-48.py -n txt2audio-48 --windowed --onefile